= This page is out of date and will be updated shortly =

= Tools =

This page contains an overview of the different command line tools available in the Tools.zip download found on the [http://code.google.com/p/visual-rbm/wiki/Downloads?tm=2 Downloads] page.

 * [Tools#Model_Tools Model Tools]
  * [Tools#cltrain cltrain]
  * [Tools#calchidden calchidden]
 * [Tools#IDX_Tools IDX Tools]
  * [Tools#idxinfo idxinfo]
  * [Tools#catidx catidx]
  * [Tools#joinidx joinidx]
  * [Tools#splitidx splitidx]
  * [Tools#csv2idx csv2idx]
  * [Tools#idx2csv idx2csv]
 
----
 
== Model Tools ==

=== cltrain ===

Used to train a model from the command line.  Should be a bit faster than using the frontend, as there should be fewer GPU->CPU transfers (since there is no visualization to be done).

==== Usage ====

{{{
cltrain [ARGS]
}}}

 * Required Arguments
  * -train=*IDX* - Specifies the input IDX dataset to use during training
  * -sched=*SCHEDULE* - Specifies the training schedule file (in the format specified on the [FileFormats] wiki page) to use during training.
  * -export=*OUT* - Specifies where to save the final model once training completes.
 * Optional Arguments
  * -valid=*IDX* - Specifies an optional validation IDX dataset
  * -import=*RBM* - Specifies an initial set of weights to start from (rather than randomly initialization the weights).
  * -quiet - Suppresses all stdout output and omits any reconstruction error calculations.

----

=== calchidden ===

Used to calculate the hidden probabilities of an RBM or AutoEncoder over an entire IDX dataset.  The output IDX can be used as training data for another model.

==== Usage ====

{{{
calchidden [INPUT] [OUTPUT] [RBM] [DROPOUT]
}}}

 * *INPUT* - The input IDX dataset.
 * *OUTPUT* - Destination to save the calculated hidden units.
 * *MODEL* - The trained model to use.
 
== IDX Tools ==

=== idxinfo ===

Used to print an IDX file's header info (as described on the [FileFormats] wiki page).

==== Usage ====

{{{
idxinfo [INPUTS]
}}}

 * *INPUTS* - A list of IDX files whose header info you want to see.

----
 
=== catidx ===

Used to concatanate together multiple datasets (with the same row dimensions and dataformat) into a single IDX dataset.  For instance, the MNIST training and test images could be concatanted into a single dataset with 70,000 length 784 rows; 60,000 rows from the training images and 10,000 rows from the test images.

==== Usage ====

{{{
catidx [INPUTS] [OUTPUT]
}}}

 * *INPUTS* - A list of IDX files to concatanate together.  All the given IDX files must have the same data format and row dimensions.
 * *OUTPUT* - Destination to save the concatanated inputs.

----
 
=== joinidx ===

Used to join together multiple IDX datasets (with the same number of rows and dataformat) into a single IDX dataset.  For instance, the MNIST training images and training labels could be joined into a single dataset with 60,000 length 794 rows; 784 brightness values and 10 label values.

==== Usage ====
{{{
joinidx [INPUTS] [OUTPUT]
}}}

 * *INPUTS* - A list of IDX files to join together.  All the given IDX files must have the same data format and the same number of rows.
 * *OUTPUT* - Destination to save the joined inputs.

----
 
=== splitidx ===

Used to take a subset of an IDX file and split it off into a separate, smaller IDX file.  For instance, splitidx could be used to divide an entire dataset into a training set and a testing set.

==== Usage ====
{{{ 
splitidx [INPUT] [OUTPUT] [FROM] [COUNT]
}}}

 * *INPUT* - The input IDX file we are generating a subset dataset from.
 * *OUTPUT* - The output IDX file to save.
 * *FROM* - The starting index in INPUT to start pulling rows from.
 * *COUNT* - Optional.  The number of rows to write to the OUTPUT file.  If no COUNT is given, then all the rows after the given FROM index will be written to OUTPUT.

----

=== csv2idx ===

Used to convert a comma delimited text file to a single precision IDX data file for use with VisualRBM.  The input CSV is expected to not have a header.

==== Usage ====
{{{
csv2idx [INPUT] [OUTPUT]
}}}

 * *INPUT* - The CSV file to convert.
 * *OUTPUT* - The output IDX file to save.

----

=== idx2csv ===

Prints an IDX data file to CSV.  CSV is either printed to file or to *stdout*.

==== Usage ====
{{{
idx2csv [INPUT] [OUTPUT]
}}}

 * *INPUT* - IDX file to convert.
 * *OUTPUT* - The output CSV file to save (optional).
